Overview
You must complete a series of tasks within the allocated time period. Instead of following step-by-step instructions, you'll be given a scenario and a set of tasks - you figure out how to complete it on your own! An automated scoring system (shown on this page) will provide feedback on whether you have completed your tasks correctly.

To score 100% you must complete all tasks within the time period!

When you take a Challenge Lab, you will not be taught BigQuery or Data Engineering concepts. To build the solution to the challenge presented, use skills learned from the labs in the quest this challenge lab is part of. You will be expected to extend your learned skills; you will be expected to change default values, but new concepts will not be introduced.

This lab is only recommended for students who have completed the labs in the Data Engineering Quest. Are you up for the challenge?

Please make sure you review the labs in the Data Engineering Quest before starting this lab!
Topics tested:

Create a new BigQuery table from existing data

Clean data for ML Model using BigQuery, Dataprep or Dataflow

Build and tune a model in BQML

Perform a batch prediction into a new table with BQML

Setup
Before you click the Start Lab button
Read these instructions. Labs are timed and you cannot pause them. The timer, which starts when you click Start Lab, shows how long Google Cloud resources will be made available to you.

This Qwiklabs hands-on lab lets you do the lab activities yourself in a real cloud environment, not in a simulation or demo environment. It does so by giving you new, temporary credentials that you use to sign in and access Google Cloud for the duration of the lab.

What you need
To complete this lab, you need:

Access to a standard internet browser (Chrome browser recommended).
Time to complete the lab.
Note: If you already have your own personal Google Cloud account or project, do not use it for this lab.

Note: If you are using a Pixelbook, open an Incognito window to run this lab.

Challenge scenario
You have started a new role as a Data Engineer for TaxiCab Inc. You are expected to import some historical data to a working BigQuery dataset, and build a basic model that predicts fares based on information available when a new ride starts. Leadership is interested in building an app and estimating for users how much a ride will cost. The source data will be provided in your project.

You are expected to have the skills and knowledge for these tasks, so don't expect step-by-step guides to be provided.

Your challenge
As soon as you sit down at your desk and open your new laptop you receive your first assignment: build a basic BQML fare prediction model for leadership. Perform the following tasks to import and clean the data, then build the model and perform batch predictions with new data so that leadership can review model performance and make a go/no-go decision on deploying the app functionality.

Task 1: Clean your training data
You've already completed the first step, and have created a dataset taxirides and imported the historical data to table, historical_taxi_rides_raw. This is data prior for rides to 2015.

You may need to wait 1-3 minutes for the data to be fully populated in your project.
To complete this task you will need to:

Clean the data in historical_taxi_rides_raw and make a copy to taxi_training_data in the same dataset. You can use BigQuery, DataPrep, DataFlow, etc. to create this table and clean the data. Make sure your target column is called fare_amount.
Some helpful hints:

You can see the source dataset in the BQ UI - familiarize yourself with the source schema first.
As a hint for the data avilable at prediction time, familiarize yourself with the table taxirides.report_prediction_data which shows the format data will arrive at prediction time.
Data Cleaning Tasks:

Ensure trip_distance is greater than 0.
Remove rows were fare_amount is very small (less than $2.5 for example).
Ensure that the latitudes and longitudes are reasonable for the use case.
Ensure passenger_count is greater than 0.
Be sure to add tolls_amount and to fare_amount as the target variable since total_amount includes tips.
Because the source dataset is large (>1 Billion rows), sample the dataset to less than 1 Million rows.
Only copy fields that will be used in your model (report_prediction_data is a good guide).
Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Create a cleaned copy of the data in taxi_training_data

If you don't get a green check mark, please click on the Score fly-out on the top right and click Run Step on the relevant step. You will see a hint pop up giving you advice.
Task 2: Create a BQML model called taxirides.fare_model
Based on the data you have in taxirides.taxi_training_data, build a BQML model that predicts fare_amount. Call the model taxirides.fare_model. Your model will need an RMSE of 10 or less to complete the task.

Some helpful hints:

You can encapsulate any additional data transformationsn in a TRANSFORM() clause

Keep in mind, only features in the TRANSFORM() clause will be passed to the model. You can use a * EXCEPT(feature_to_leave_out) to pass some or all of the features without explicitly calling them

ST_distance() and ST_GeogPoint() GIS functions in BigQuery can be used to easily calculate euclidean distance (i.e. how far pickup to dropoff did the taxi travel):

ST_Distance(ST_GeogPoint(pickuplon, pickuplat), ST_GeogPoint(dropofflon, dropofflat)) AS euclidean
Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Create BQML model fare_model with RMSE 10 or less

If you don't get a green check mark, please click on the Score fly-out on the top right and click Run Step on the relevant step. You will see a hint pop up giving you advice.
Task 3: Perform a batch prediction on new data
Leadership is curious to see how well your model performs over new data, in this case, all of the data they've collected in 2015. This data is in taxirides.report_prediction_data. Only values known at prediction time are included in the table.

Use ML.PREDICT and your model to predict fare_amount and store your results in a table called 2015_fare_amount_predictions.

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Perform batch predictions and store in a new table 2015_fare_amount_predictions

If you don't get a green check mark, please click on the Score fly-out on the top right and click Run Step on the relevant step. You will see a hint pop up giving you advice.
Congratulations!
skills_final_eng_data

Finish Your Quest
This self-paced lab is part of the Qwiklabs Engineer Data in Google Cloud Quest. A Quest is a series of related labs that form a learning path. Completing this Quest earns you the badge above, to recognize your achievement. You can make your badge (or badges) public and link to them in your online resume or social media account. Enroll in a Quest and get immediate completion credit if you've taken this lab. See other available Qwiklabs Quests.

Take your next lab
This lab is also part of a series of labs called Challenge Labs. These labs are designed test your Google Cloud knowledge and skill. Search for "Challenge Lab" in the lab catalog and challenge yourself!

Google Cloud Training & Certification
...helps you make the most of Google Cloud technologies. Our classes include technical skills and best practices to help you get up to speed quickly and continue your learning journey. We offer fundamental to advanced level training, with on-demand, live, and virtual options to suit your busy schedule. Certifications help you validate and prove your skill and expertise in Google Cloud technologies.

Manual Last Updated June 17, 2020
Lab Last Tested June 11, 2020
Copyright 2020 Google LLC All rights reserved. Google and the Google logo are trademarks of Google LLC. All other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated.